# PLANT-DISEASE-PREDICTION
Identification of the plant diseases is the key to preventing the losses in the yield and quantity of the agricultural product. The studies of the plant diseases mean the studies of visually observable patterns seen on the plant. Health monitoring and disease detection on plant is very critical for sustainable agriculture. It is very difficult to monitor the plant diseases manually. It requires tremendous amount of work in the plant diseases, and also require the excessive processing time. Hence, image processing and Machine learning techniques are used for the detection of plant diseases. Disease detection involves the steps like image acquisition, image pre-processing , image segmentation, feature extraction and classification.
There are number of ways by which we can detect disease of plants and suggest remedies for them. Each has some pros as well as limitations .On one hand visual analysis is least expensive and simple method, it is not as efficient and reliable. Image processing is a technique which is most spoken for very high accuracy and least time consumption are major advantages offered. The applications of K-means clustering and Neural Networks (NNs) have been formulated for clustering and classification of diseases that effect on plant leaves. Recognizing the disease accurately and efficiently is mainly the purpose of the proposed approach. The experimental results indicate that the proposed approach is a valuable approach, which can significantly support an accurate detection of leaf diseases in a little computational effort. Alongside the supply of cultivation tools, the farmers also need access to accurate information that they can use for efficient crop management and there is no better way than providing them a service that they can use through the software.
